# Understanding Contrail Analytics

 

Contrail is a distributed system of compute nodes, control nodes,
configuration nodes, database nodes, web UI nodes, and analytics nodes.

The analytics nodes are responsible for the collection of system state
information, usage statistics, and debug information from all of the
software modules across all of the nodes of the system. The analytics
nodes store the data gathered across the system in a database that is
based on the Apache Cassandra open source distributed database
management system. The database is queried by means of an SQL-like
language and representational state transfer (REST) APIs.

System state information collected by the analytics nodes is aggregated
across all of the nodes.

Debug information collected by the analytics nodes includes the
following types:

-   System log (syslog) messages—informational and debug messages
    generated by system software components.

-   Object log messages—records of changes made to system objects such
    as virtual machines, virtual networks, service instances, virtual
    routers, BGP peers, routing instances, and the like.

-   Trace messages—records of activities collected locally by software
    components and sent to analytics nodes only on demand.

Statistics information related to flows, CPU and memory usage, and the
like is also collected by the analytics nodes and can be queried to
provide historical analytics and time-series information. The queries
are performed using REST APIs.

Analytics data is written to a database in Contrail. The data expires
after the default time-to-live (TTL) period of 48 hours. This default
TTL time can be changed as needed by changing the value of the
`database_ttl `value in the cluster configuration.

 
