Using the Contrail Heat Template
================================

 

.. raw:: html

   <div id="intro">

.. raw:: html

   <div class="mini-toc-intro">

Heat is the orchestration engine of the OpenStack program. Heat enables
launching multiple cloud applications based on templates that are
comprised of text files.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   </div>

Introduction to Heat
--------------------

A Heat template describes the infrastructure for a cloud application,
such as networks, servers, floating IP addresses, and the like, and can
be used to manage the entire life cycle of that application.

When the application infrastructure changes, the Heat templates can be
modified to automatically reflect those changes. Heat can also delete
all application resources if the system is finished with an application.

Heat templates can record the relationships between resources, for
example, which networks are connected by means of policy enforcements,
and consequently call OpenStack REST APIs that create the necessary
infrastructure, in the correct order, needed to launch the application
managed by the Heat template.

Heat Architecture
-----------------

Heat is implemented by means of Python applications, including the
following:

-  ``heat-client``—The CLI tool that communicates with the ``heat-api``
   application to run Heat APIs.

-  ``heat-api``—Provides an OpenStack native REST API that processes API
   requests by sending them to the Heat engine over remote procedure
   calls (RPCs).

-  ``heat-engine``—Responsible for orchestrating the launch of templates
   and providing events back to the API consumer.

Support for Heat Version 2 Resources
------------------------------------

Starting with Contrail Release 3.0.2, Contrail Heat resources and
templates are autogenerated from the Contrail schema, using Heat Version
2 resources. Contrail Release 3.0.2 is the minimum required version for
using Heat with Contrail in 3.x releases. The Contrail Heat Version 2
resources are of the following hierarchy:
``OS::ContrailV2::<ResourceName>``.

The generated resources and templates are part of the Contrail Python
package, and are located in the following directory in the target
installation:

``/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/vnc_api/gen/heat/``

The ``heat/`` directory has the following subdirectories:

-  ``resources/``—Contains all the resources for the contrail-heat
   plugin, which runs in the context of the Heat engine service.

-  ``templates/``—Contains sample templates for each resource. Each
   sample template presents every possible parameter in the schema. Use
   the sample templates as a reference when you build up more complex
   templates for your network design.

-  ``env/``—Contains the environment for input to each template.

The following contains a list of all the generated plug-in resources
that are supported by contrail-heat :

https://github.com/tungstenfabric/tf-heat-plugin/tree/master/contrail_heat/new_templates

Deprecation of Heat Version 1 Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Heat Version 1 resources within the hierarchy
``OS::Contrail::<ResourceName>`` are being deprecated, and you should
not create new service templates using the Heat Version 1 templates.

Heat Version 2 with Service Templates and Port Tuple Sample Workflow
--------------------------------------------------------------------

With Contrail service templates Version 2, the user can create ports and
bind them to a virtual machine (VM)-based service instance, by means of
a port-tuple object. All objects created with the Version 2 service
template are directly visible to the Contrail Heat engine, and are
directly managed by Heat.

The following shows the basic workflow steps for creating a port tuple
and service instance that will be managed by Heat:

1. Create a service template. Select 2 in the Version field.

2. Create a service instance for the service template just created.

3. Create a port-tuple object.

4. Create ports, using Nova VM launch or without a VM launch.

5. Label each port as left, right, mgmt, and so on, and add the ports to
   the port-tuple object.

   Use a unique label for each of the ports in a single port tuple. The
   labels named left and right are used for forwarding.

6. Link the port tuple to a service instance.

7. Launch the service instance.

Example: Creating a Service Template Using Heat
-----------------------------------------------

The following is an example of how to create a service template using
Heat.

1. Define a template to create the service template.

   .. raw:: html

      <div id="jd0e140" class="sample" dir="ltr">

   .. raw:: html

      <div class="output" dir="ltr">

   ::

      service_template.yaml
      heat_template_version:  2013-‐05-‐23
      description: >
         HOT template to create a service template
      parameters:
         name:  
            type: string
            description: Name of service template     
         mode:
            type: string
            description: service mode
         type:
            type: string   
            description: service type
         image:
            type: string
            description: Name of the image
         flavor:
            type: string     
            description: Flavor
         service_interface_type_list:
            type: string
            description: List of interface types
         shared_ip_list:
            type: string
            description: List of shared ip enabled-‐disabled
         static_routes_list:
            type: string
            description: List of static routes enabled-‐disabled
       
      resources:
         service_template:
            type: OS::ContrailV2::ServiceTemplate
            properties:
               name: { get_param: name }
               service_mode: { get_param: mode }
               service_type: { get_param: type }
               image_name: { get_param: image }  
               flavor: { get_param: flavor }
               service_interface_type_list: { "Fn::Split" : [ ",", Ref: service_interface_type_list ] }
               shared_ip_list: { "Fn::Split" : [ ",", Ref: shared_ip_list ] }
               static_routes_list: { "Fn::Split" : [ ",", Ref: static_routes_list ] }
         outputs:
            service_template_fq_name:
               description: FQ name of the service template
               value: { get_attr: [ service_template, fq_name] }

      }

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

2. Create an environment file to define the values to put in the
   variables in the template file.

   .. raw:: html

      <div id="jd0e146" class="sample" dir="ltr">

   .. raw:: html

      <div class="output" dir="ltr">

   ::

      service_template.env

      parameters:

         name: contrail_svc_temp

         mode: transparent

         type: firewall

         image: cirros

         flavor: m1.tiny

         service_interface_type_list: management,left,right,other

         shared_ip_list: True,True,False,False     

         static_routes_list: False,True,False,False

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

3. Create the Heat stack by launching the template and the environment
   file, using the following command:

   .. raw:: html

      <div id="jd0e152" class="sample" dir="ltr">

   .. raw:: html

      <div class="output" dir="ltr">

   ::

      heat stack create stack1 –f service_template.yaml –e service_template.env

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

   .. raw:: html

      <div id="jd0e156" class="sample" dir="ltr">

   OR use this command for recent versions of OpenStack

   .. raw:: html

      <div class="output" dir="ltr">

   ::

      openstack stack create -e <env-file-name> -t <template-file-name> <stack-name>

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

   .. raw:: html

      </div>

 
